#AIM: Understanding the Sensor Node Hardware. (For eg: Sensors, Nodes(Sensor mote), Base Station,

Graphical User Interface.)

#THEORY:
A wireless sensor network (WSN) is a hardware and software package that are typically:

A. Sensor

‘Sensors’ are connected to each node by a wired connection. In our case, we use sensors that can
measure soil moisture, electrical conductivity, soil temperature, water pressure, flow rate, or a range of
weather variables (light, air temperature, wind, humidity, etc.).

Sensor
B. Nodes/Sensor mote

‘Nodes’ collect the data from sensors and transmit that to a base station computer using a one-way (in
the case of monitoring) or two-way (in the case of monitoring and control) radio. Nodes can simply
monitor environmental and soil conditions or can be used to make control decisions. For example, some
nodes have the capability to control an electric valve, such as an irrigation valve.

Nodes

C. Base Station

‘Base Station’ computer connects the system to the internet, so that data collected by the nodes, then
transmitted to the base station computer, can be viewed anywhere an internet connection is available.

Base Station
D. Graphical User Interface

‘Graphical User Interface’ is the web-based software package, that allows the data collected by sensors
to be viewed. The software is also used to set irrigation parameters. It is the web-based software
package, that allows the data collected by sensors to be viewed. The software is also used to set
irrigation parameters. The graphical user interface above depicts the volumetric water content (soil
moisture) as horizontal lines and irrigation events and amounts as bars. Notice the increase in soil
moisture after each irrigation event. A very simple WSN example that many can relate to is that of the
wireless environmental monitoring system used by the National Weather Service (NWS). You have
probably seen these at a local airport or school. In this case, sensors measure environmental conditions
and send this data to a node that wirelessly transmits the data using a cell signal or wireless signal to a
base-station computer where NWS employees (and you) can view the current temperature (or
rainfall/dew point, wind, etc.) via a website or application (‘app’).