#AIM: Case study on "Amazon EC2/Microsoft Azure/Google Cloud Platform".

#THEORY:
--------------------------
1) Cloud Service Providers

- Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2) forms a central part of Amazon.com's cloud-
computing platform, Amazon Web Services (AWS), by allowing users to rent virtual

computers on which to run their own computer applications. EC2 encourages scalable
deployment of applications by providing a web service through which a user can boot an
Amazon Machine Image (AMI) to configure a virtual machine, which Amazon calls an
"instance", containing any software desired. A user can create, launch, and terminate
server-instances as needed, paying by the second for active servers – hence the term
"elastic". EC2 provides users with control over the geographical location of instances that
allows for latency optimization and high levels of redundancy.

- Microsoft Azure (formerly Windows Azure) is a cloud computing service created by
Microsoft for building, testing, deploying, and managing applications and services through
Microsoft-managed data centers. It provides software as a service (SaaS), platform as a
service (PaaS) and infrastructure as a service (IaaS) and supports many different

programming languages, tools and frameworks, including both Microsoft-specific and third-
party software and systems.

Azure was announced in October 2008, started with codename "Project Red Dog", and
released on February 1, 2010, as "Windows Azure" before being renamed "Microsoft Azure"
on March 25, 2014.

- Google Cloud Platform (GCP), offered by Google, is a suite of cloud computing services
that runs on the same infrastructure that Google uses internally for its end-user products,
such as Google Search and YouTube. Alongside a set of management tools, it provides a
series of modular cloud services including computing, data storage, data analytics and
machine learning. Registration requires a credit card or bank account details.
Google Cloud Platform provides infrastructure as a service, platform as a service, and
serverless computing environments.
In April 2008, Google announced App Engine, a platform for developing and hosting web
applications in Google-managed data centers, which was the first cloud computing service

from the company. The service became generally available in November 2011. Since the
announcement of App Engine, Google added multiple cloud services to the platform.
Google Cloud Platform is a part [4] of Google Cloud, which includes the Google Cloud
Platform public cloud infrastructure, as well as G Suite, enterprise versions of Android and
Chrome OS, and application programming interfaces (APIs) for machine learning and
enterprise mapping services.
--------------------------
2) How old are these platforms?
-(Amazon EC2)Launched: March 2006; 13 years ago

-(Microsoft Azure)Launched: 1 February 2010; 10 years old

-(Google Cloud Platform)Launched: April 7, 2008; 11 years old
--------------------------
3) Which one to choose and why?
- (Amazon)With a vast tool set that continues to grow exponentially, Amazon’s capabilities
are unmatched. Yet its cost structure can be confusing, and its singular focus on public cloud
rather than hybrid cloud or private cloud means that interoperating with your data center
isn't AWS's top priority.
• Easy to use
AWS is designed to allow application providers, ISVs, and vendors to quickly and securely
host your applications – whether an existing application or a new SaaS-based application.
You can use the AWS Management Console or well-documented web services APIs to access
AWS’s application hosting platform.
• Flexible
AWS enables you to select the operating system, programming language, web application
platform, database, and other services you need. With AWS, you receive a virtual
environment that lets you load the software and services your application requires. This
eases the migration process for existing applications while preserving options for building
new solutions.
• Cost-Effective

You pay only for the compute power, storage, and other resources you use, with no long-
term contracts or up-front commitments. For more information on comparing the costs of

other hosting alternatives with AWS, see the AWS Economics Center.

• Reliable
With AWS, you take advantage of a scalable, reliable, and secure global computing
infrastructure, the virtual backbone of Amazon.com’s multi-billion dollar online business
that has been honed for over a decade.
• Scalable and high-performance
Using AWS tools, Auto Scaling, and Elastic Load Balancing, your application can scale up or
down based on demand. Backed by Amazon’s massive infrastructure, you have access to
compute and storage resources when you need them.
• Secure
AWS utilizes an end-to-end approach to secure and harden our infrastructure, including
physical, operational, and software measures. For more information, see the AWS Security
Center.
--------------------------
4) Pricing?
-Always free(though there are various categories)
--------------------------
5) Features?
-Various configurations of CPU, memory, storage, and networking capacity for your
instances, known as instance types. Secure login information for your instances using key
pairs (AWS stores the public key, and you store the private key in a secure place)
--------------------------
6) Services?
-Amazon EC2 is integrated with most AWS services such as Amazon Simple Storage Service
(Amazon S3), Amazon Relational Database Service (Amazon RDS), and Amazon Virtual
Private Cloud (Amazon VPC) to provide a complete, secure solution for computing, query
processing, and cloud storage across a wide range of applications.