Aim: Study and implementation of identity management
OwnCloud is open source file sync and share software for everyone from individuals operating the free
ownCloud Server edition, to large enterprises and service providers operating the ownCloud Enterprise
Subscription. ownCloud provides a safe, secure, and compliant file synchronization and sharing solution
on servers that you control. You can share one or more files and folders on your computer, and
synchronize them with your ownCloud server
Identity Management
Procedure:
1. Install WAMP Server 2.5
2. Copy the owncloud folder in C:\wamp\www
3. Run WAMP Server
4. Open Browser: https://localhost/owncloud
5. For the first time it ask to create admin user
─ Enter username as admin and password as admin click on Finish Setup Button
6. After finishing setup dashboard will appear
7. Go to Admin Options and click on users
8. Create a group TYCS
9. Create Different User and Add them to TYCS Group
10. And then login with user accounts
11. Upload on file and give access to only TYCS Group
12. Step 5: Five Share permissions are :
─ Can share; allows the users you share with to re-share.
─ Can edit; allows the users you share with to edit your shared files, and to collaborate
using the Documents app.
─ Create; allows the users you share with to create new files and add them to the share.
─ Change; allows uploading a new version of a shared file and replacing it.
─ Delete; allows the users you share with to delete shared files.

Conclusion:
We have studied how to use ownCloud for ensuring identity management of the users. We can
create multiple groups and provide privileges to view or modify data as per defined permissions.
It also enables simplified look and feel to be used by anyone.

USCS602 Identity Management Prof.Mudassar Ansari
Screen shots:
1. Install wamp server 2.5 and launch it (start)

Click on Wamp Server Icon (Quick Launch) (Icon Should be in GREEN Color)
Open localhost

In project section click on owncloud

USCS602 Identity Management Prof.Mudassar Ansari
Owncloud will start and ask to create admin user

Enter the username and password then click on Finish setup

USCS602 Identity Management Prof.Mudassar Ansari
After finishing setup

Dashboard will appear

USCS602 Identity Management Prof.Mudassar Ansari
Create Group and Create Users add them in Group

Perform steps 10,11 & 12 mention in procedure.