#AIM: To study cloud computing architecture and cloud computing models.

#THEORY:
--------------------------
1) Cloud Computing Definition.
By definition, “the practice of using a network of remote servers hosted on the Internet to
store, manage, and process data, rather than a local server or a personal computer.”
Cloud computing is the on-demand availability of computer system resources, especially
data storage and computing power, without direct active management by the user. The
term is generally used to describe data centers available to many users over the Internet.
Large clouds, predominant today, often have functions distributed over multiple locations
from central servers. If the connection to the user is relatively close, it may be designated an
edge server.
Clouds may be limited to a single organization (enterprise clouds), or be available to many
organizations (public cloud).
Cloud computing relies on sharing of resources to achieve coherence and economies of
scale.
--------------------------

2) Three main benefits of cloud computing:
• Self-service
Self-service cloud computing is a form of private cloud service where the customer
provisions storage and launches applications without going through an external cloud
service provider. With a self-service cloud, users access a web-based portal, where they
can request or configure servers and launch applications.
• Elasticity
In cloud computing, elasticity is defined as "the degree to which a system is able to
adapt to workload changes by provisioning and de-provisioning resources in an
autonomic manner, such that at each point in time the available resources match the
current demand as closely as possible". Elasticity is a defining characteristic that
differentiates cloud computing from previously proposed computing paradigms, such as
grid computing. The dynamic adaptation of capacity, e.g., by altering the use of
computing resources, to meet a varying workload is called "elastic computing".

• Pay per use
Pay-as-you-go cloud computing (PAYG cloud computing) is a payment method for cloud
computing that charges based on usage. The practice is similar to that of utility bills,
using only resources that are needed.
One major benefit of the pay-as-you-go method is that there are no wasted resources,
since users only pay for services procured, rather than provisioning for a certain amount
of resources that may or may not be used.
--------------------------

3) Three types of service:
• Storage as a Service (SaaS)
Storage as a service (SaaS) is a business model in which a company leases or rents its
storage infrastructure to another company or individuals to store data. Small companies
and individuals often find this to be a convenient methodology for managing backups,
and providing cost savings in personnel, hardware and physical space.
A company providing SaaS may be called a storage service provider (SSP). Storage as a
service can also be referred to as hosted storage.
• Platform as a Service (PaaS)

Platform as a Service (PaaS) or Application Platform as a Service (aPaaS) or platform-
based service is a category of cloud computing services that provides a platform

allowing customers to develop, run, and manage applications without the complexity of
building and maintaining the infrastructure typically associated with developing and
launching an app.
• Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS)
Infrastructure as a service (IaaS) are online services that provide high-level APIs used to
dereference various low-level details of underlying network infrastructure like physical
computing resources, location, data partitioning, scaling, security, backup etc. A
hypervisor, such as Xen, Oracle VirtualBox, Oracle VM, KVM, VMware ESX/ESXi, or
Hyper-V, LXD, runs the virtual machines as guests. Pools of hypervisors within the cloud
operational system can support large numbers of virtual machines and the ability to
scale services up and down according to customers' varying requirements.
--------------------------

4) Cloud Computing Model:
• Public cloud
A public cloud is a platform that uses the standard cloud computing model to make
resources, such as virtual machines (VMs), applications or storage, available to users
remotely. Public cloud services may be free or offered through a variety of subscription
or on-demand pricing schemes, including a pay-per-usage model.

• Private cloud
Private cloud refers to a model of cloud computing where IT services are provisioned
over private IT infrastructure for the dedicated use of a single organization. A private
cloud is usually managed via internal resources.
The terms private cloud and virtual private cloud (VPC) are often used interchangeably.
Technically speaking, a VPC is a private cloud using a third-party cloud provider's
infrastructure, while a private cloud is implemented over internal infrastructure.
Private clouds may also be referred to as enterprise clouds.
• Hybrid cloud
Hybrid cloud is a cloud computing environment that uses a mix of on-premises, private
cloud and third-party, public cloud services with orchestration between the two
platforms. By allowing workloads to move between private and public clouds as
computing needs and costs change, hybrid cloud gives businesses greater flexibility and
more data deployment options.
--------------------------
5) Advantages and Disadvantages
• Advantages:
Cost Savings
High Speed
Back-up and restore data
Unlimited storage capacity
Quick Deployment
• Disadvantages:
Technical Issues
Internet Connectivity
Lacks of Support
Security Threat in the Cloud
Downtime
--------------------------

6) Conclusion
Despite all the pro and cons, we can't deny the fact that Cloud Computing is the fastest
growing part of network-based computing. It offers a great advantage to customers of all
sizes: simple users, developers, enterprises and all types of organizations. So, this
technology here to stay for a long time.